in about 50 years the technology is
going to be there
to reverse your age and basically be
close to immortal
this episode is brought to you by our
very own learning platform
impact theory university watch to the
end of this interview to learn more
everybody welcome to another episode of
health theory i am here with dr
alex posiotopoulos alex welcome to the
show
ah thank you for having me i'm happy to
be here i'm excited man
and i'm really interested in the area
that you're diving into
um anti-aging or even some of the things
i know that you've talked about or
perhaps even age reversal um i'd like to
get into that what
what is the the state of the science
what's something that people might be
surprised in terms of what's possible
with
actually winding that clock backwards
sure
so we've had anti-aging medicine for
about 27 years
board certifications in it and the whole
idea was that
you the older you get the faster you get
old but by doing anti-aging you're
slowing that curve down
and allows you to live a longer life but
really much more importantly
a better quality of life now
what we found was that anti-aging
medicine has kind of a limit to it
and you can only slow aging down so much
and so
we're looking at well what if you tried
to just reverse age
what's that look like and actually
that's feasible
and it's just what does that look like
in terms of at a cellular level what are
the pathways that we're
going after like do you think of aging
as a disease
or do you see it as just something
that's inevitable oh i
definitely look at it as a disease aging
causes so many problems if you just
stopped aging or even just inhibited
aging by a significant amount
you would have a greater impact on all
the cardiovascular problems all the
cancer problems all the
cognitive problems dementias all that
then actually trying to solve
any one of those problems there's only
really seven major
problems that we have to overcome and
those problems the answers to those
problems are known
so you have intracellular junk
you have extracellular junk you have
these things called glycation end
products
you have problems with your dna breaks
in it and stuff like that you have
mitochondrial dysfunction
another problem is that you have
synalytic cells and centalytic cells are
really the target
of most of the age reversal programs and
of aging in general because
when you look at all these ways that you
age they're not
equal and synalytic cells tend to have
the greatest impact
and they populate
just like you age remember how we're
talking about like the older you get the
faster you get old well the older you
get the greater the population
of centalytic cells can you define what
what is this analytic cell i'm not
familiar with that term
so analytics so it has a purpose when
you're
being conceived like when you're in you
know when you're in the womb
and it's you know you have a bunch of
cells that are growing in a ball but
they have to turn into all these organs
and structures
so when cells fold around some cells
have to be removed
and so centalytic cells do some of that
but the problem with this analytic cell
is when you're older these analytic
cells don't really have a lot to do
and when they start populating they get
big
take a lot of space they release a lot
of these enzymes that are
caustic to all the cells around them and
then they have this ability to turn a
good
healthy cell into a cellulitic cell
so we want to do everything that we can
to keep them their populations low
and so a lot of age reversal is focused
on getting at those analytic cells
and one of the really easy things people
can do
is do water fasting there's some really
cool things that happen
after about 48 hours of no food a lot of
the genes that are active
change what happens with a lot of
biological
mechanisms is if you're used to being in
a famine
multiple times per year you get genes
that run during the famine
and they don't run normal times and so
those genes that run they're kind of
like maintenance genes
and they fix your dna and they clean up
intracellular junk
right they fix the matrix so it's not so
stiff they get rid of these semalytic
cells
so we want to go through a controlled
family
somewhere between a three and a half day
and a four and a half day water fast
once a month
as you get older you can do it when
you're younger but i think it really
matters when your centalytic cells start
populating
to when there are dangerous levels so
someone about 40
40 and up i would say you start doing it
if you're late 30s i think you'd still
do it too
and it also coincides with the calorie
restriction society
and all the calorie restriction data
that we have so there's not a single
organism on the planet that we've done
calorie restriction with
that didn't live longer and the the way
that
water fasting works is not only are you
getting some calorie restriction
but you're also getting those genes
turned on that you wouldn't get turned
on when you're just restricting calories
so think of every cell as a factory
and that factory has so many things that
it needs to do every day
and if you're in a well-fed state most
of the things that all your cells are
working on is metabolism of energy
so you're taking in this food you have
to release insulin
then your body's going to take all this
these different nutrients fats and amino
acids
carbohydrates and has to do something
with them right and it's just shuttling
all this stuff around so
when you're on a fast you're not doing a
lot of that all you're doing is you're
just taking stored fat mostly from the
liver
right and you're releasing some ketones
and then that
that system turns on all these other
genes because well they're not busy
doing other stuff
so now it's like okay you know we don't
have to do all this other stuff
so now we have energy to do this kind of
just like other genes run when you're
sleeping
like your body knows when you're
sleeping and it changes which genes are
active and which ones aren't
and if you don't sleep well i mean
that's a whole nother problem but like
you know you're gonna age really fast
that way and there's plenty of people
that
come in and they'll say you know i sleep
five six hours a night and i feel great
i'm like yeah but it's your body can't
handle that long term you're aging fast
that's interesting so when we're
sleeping what are the processes that are
running
um and then i guess we'll get to then
how that ages you when you're truncating
that
yeah so when you're sleeping what'll
happen
is you have this thing called a
circadian rhythm
and animals are really good about not
screwing up their circadian rhythm
right like the birds don't wake up late
there's not a bird that's like you know
i don't get up until noon
right they just get up right and they go
to bed at the same time and so
what that does is it really sets this
biological clock
so that everything happens on a 24-hour
cycle
and certain hormones need to be released
at certain times
and then certain repair mechanisms need
to happen at the immune system level or
in your brain
and you can be quote unquote sleeping
but if you're not
really sleeping well like you have sleep
apnea or you keep waking up
or you have a lot of anxiety then you're
not gonna be able to go
into deep sleep you're not gonna get
enough rem cycles
you know and every time you wake up you
restart the whole sleep system
because you have this thing called sleep
inertia
so your first rem cycle takes a long
time
it takes over two hours usually for you
don't do that and then every successive
rem cycle it can be compressed
so in seven hours you could easily get
four rem cycles
but if you keep waking up you could be
in the bed for nine hours and never get
it
so i hate sleep uh if i didn't need it i
wouldn't get it i fully understand i
actually prioritize it in my life it's
one of the most important things that i
do
um if i had to guess though i averaged
without an alarm clock i never set an
alarm clock i always go to bed at the
same time i'm very aware of my circadian
rhythms but just in terms of
where i'm at in my life levels of
excitement levels of stress whatever i
probably average about six to six and a
half hours of sleep a night
um and one thing that i heard is that
while you're sleeping your brain
actually
shrinks and or d inflames maybe is the
right way to think about it and
allows like a a brainwashing if you will
is that what's happening or is there
something else going on
during the different phases of sleep
that make it so critical
yeah so there's a lot more going on and
really
probably one of the most important
things that's going on
are the immune cells that get stimulated
in your brain
so these microglial cells and these
astrocytes that are in your brain
they're doing all the repair and they're
more active during the night
the other thing is that your brain is
taking all the memories from the day
and you're forgetting forgetting
is really the most important process
because
your hippocampus will just get full of
all these proteins that just get
accumulated during the during the day
you don't want to remember
like every single little detail of the
day you just don't have that capacity
and if you don't make sure that you
process all that short-term memory
and free it up the next day you're going
to be compromising your ability to
remember
so when we stop and say okay we have a
rough understanding of where we're
trying to get to we want to either slow
aging as much as we can we want to
actually reverse aging
what's the optimal lifestyle
so sleep we got that one we'll check
that box gotta have sleep
right problems with your brain also
including sleep have to do with your
circulation
and all the quality of your blood
vessels i always talk about the blood
vessels as like the
most important organ in your body right
so it's the infrastructure for
everything so
for for quality of what we call the
endothelium which is the lining of your
blood vessels
first we test so there's a bunch of
blood markers that we can test
that look at how well that system's
working
you know whether you're able to release
nitric oxide these
markers called adma there's a bunch of
separate markers that we look at
the patients that i have that are
already plant-based
their endothelium works great
the people that are eating kind of your
standard western diet
without a lot of plants and lots of
animal products especially dairy and
things like that
their endothelium just doesn't work
let's dive into that so
um let's differentiate because
i would say that a standard american
diet or a standard western diet isn't
just
rich in animal protein it's
twinkies and oreos and you know potato
chips and french fries and all that good
stuff
um so to just to isolate maybe to the
more the higher end of the scale
let's take uh somebody who their primary
calorie is derived from
meat and then somebody whose primary
calories are derived from
plant matter but both of them are eating
and maybe you won't agree on this word
but they're eating a clean diet right so
it's not
fast food hamburgers and stuff like that
it's you know grass-fed
but i just want to get a sense of what
happens to the endothelial lining
when you're a meat eater clean again
versus a plant-based diet clean so clean
versus clean what you're normally going
to see
in in the labs that i get here so this
is not just literature
this is what i see sure and i get a lot
of athletes that come in that are eating
really clean uh meats
right they're either wild or they're all
organic
and they're pretty balanced they're not
eating too many calories and stuff like
that
but their inflammation markers are
always higher
than my plant-based clean people and the
people that are
you know majority plant-based and for me
in
in the labs that i've looked at when you
get down to about
20 calories from animals
80 plants you're just about as good as
somebody that's 100 plants
and sorry is that from by calorie by
calorie
so one of the things that i found as an
argument
very compelling is this idea that look
if you're trying to build muscle tissue
eat muscle tissue
and when you think about all the things
that
we need to eat to maintain our body it
it makes sense to me that you would go
eat the very same things that you need
to build in terms of the building blocks
and i'm curious if you know if you have
a hypothesis because i'm sure it's it's
still early days but if you have a
hypothesis as to why
meat in particular creates this cascade
of inflammation
which when i think about all-cause
mortality it's like get your
inflammation down
so before i answer that question what we
want what i want to do
and what i'm focusing on in the clinic
is
we want to go beyond what nature created
for us
and the environment we want to optimize
the average person isn't even close to
their genetic potential
so we want to go beyond your genetic
potential and so when we apply that to
food
what we're noticing is that if you eat a
lot of meat
your ph is usually off the more acidic
your environment
the more problems you have with what's
called calcifications
so you get dystrophic calcification to
get it in the arteries again and
everything else
and that's part of aging is that
stiffening we don't want stiffening
so that's one thing we want to modulate
is ph the other thing is like we have
what 25 or 30 years of dean ornish in
his studies
and now we have dr esselstein studies of
they can reverse arterial sclerosis
with a plant-based diet that's
interesting
um so i'm pitching a reality show around
town that i'm trying to get produce
called carnivore versus vegan
and i want to lock identical twins in a
house
and one part of the twin set is eating
carnivore and the other side is eating
vegan
my fantasy would be to lock them in
there for six months and do all kinds of
blood markers plus self-reporting all
that so that we have like a real
controlled thing because when i hear a
study like that in in total fairness i
don't know those studies well enough to
to comment i've heard dean ornish's name
thrown around a million times
but i'm not familiar with the data
specifically tied to that anyway
oftentimes what happens is you take
somebody who's on a standard american
diet they're eating garbage
uncontrolled like i mean just a mess
and if you put them on any diet their
life is going to get better if you put
them on a carnivore diet it would get
better if you put them on a vegan diet
it's going to get better
so what are the studies that we should
look at for um
going moving away from a meat-based diet
to a plant-based diet and they
clearing up the arteries i would just
definitely look up dr dean ornish in his
studies
and i'd also look up dr esselstein uh dr
esselstyn's
he's a cardiologist and he's been doing
plant-based diet for a long time
uh um do you know what the rough
protocols were for the diets just take a
normal person and put them pure
plant-based
yeah just doing purple anthologies but
they're doing like they're not doing
i mean there's vegans that are eating
all that fake stuff right
fake meat like this is that a problem
because they end up using a lot of sugar
or is there another issue
yeah because remember one of the reasons
of aging is glycation end products
so one of the regular tests you see even
regular doctors
measures uh hemoglobin a1c and
that's a measure of glycation end
product on a red blood cell
and that number is logarithmic so
somebody that has a 5 versus a 6
is 10 times less right and if you go to
a 7 you're like well it's not that much
better we have 100 times more
so if your body has to make 100 times
more replacement proteins and then have
to deal with all of that
it's going to fail not only is going to
fail but you're using so much energy
to do something that it shouldn't have
to do and as we get older
we have less energy so that's part of
age reversal and anti-aging is let's
maximize how much energy we have
and let's minimize how much we have to
access the dna and make a lot of
proteins
because that's what happens as you get
older you don't have this ability to do
that
so you want to have kind of a low
protein diet so if you look at a lot of
the studies in the blue zones
with people that have lived 100 years
and plus
the one commonality around that is on
low protein diets
so i've been plant-based for 22 years
now
and i have a pretty low protein i kind
of count to make sure i keep it
can you give me some numbers around that
when you say low protein and i'm
assuming this is the vast majority is
coming from plants
what's your rough protein grams per day
so you know people will say somewhere
you need about a gram for every kilogram
and high end athletes are doing a gram
per pound
so if you weigh 200 pounds in body
weight
if you're a high-end athlete what the
normal
prescription is for that is to give you
200 grams of protein per day
um i'm probably down to
60 to 70 of that one kilogram
or one gram per kilogram so maybe i'll
get
maybe 50 grams a day of protein
and i don't have any trouble i don't
have any trouble rock climbing
i'm having trouble doing yoga i'm the
third black and kung fu
you know i can squat and dead lift you
know
multiple times my body weight so i don't
believe
in that and when i get people to say
that i'm just like
well how can i do this and how can all
these other plant-based diets
do these extraordinary feats of strength
or endurance with low protein
right because your body has this amazing
ability to recycle protein
and it's the nitrogen cycle and so yeah
you'll work out and you break down
protein
you're not just going to get rid of it a
healthy body is going to take that and
recycle it and put it back
plus if you're on the right supplements
that help you do that
like you know glutamine is one of them
ornithine alpha ketoglutarate which is a
fantastic
supplement you know created by the
french scientists for burn patients
because nobody's losing more protein and
nitrogen than a burn patients
so there's lots of ways that you can
optimize how your body
makes protein and how your body recycles
protein and uses those amino acids
efficiently rather than just flooding
your body with
that supplement so what are those things
how do you get your body to be
that kind of efficient so there's
behavioral modifications
right which is eating and how you're
eating and then
we do genetic studies so the reason i'm
doing a lot of genetic studies on people
is although most of our genes are super
similar
there's a lot of genetic problems that
you'll have with fat
and that has to do with survival
so we want to make sure that we dial in
diet based on genetics and then
also based on what do we see in the labs
so there's a lot of different levels
that we're looking at so that
you know when you come in and you do a
medical engineering program with me
you're not just getting some program
algorithm
you know it's designed based on you and
based on your labs
so that we can get you balanced and get
you into the low inflammation levels and
get your fats
regulated and then do all the scans on
you that are necessary to make sure like
well do you have any plaques soft
plaques hard plaques
you know what's the state of your
endothelium and what's the functional
state of endothelium
so um there isn't one one diet for all
right and some people like they'll come
in and i'll look at what is the
circulating levels of albumin and what's
their
levels of protein in the blood and
what's their blood urea nitrogen ratios
and
you look at all this and then i can say
like oh you're
working out too hard you're breaking
down too much tissue you're over
training
and then other people i'm like well
you're not meeting your protein
requirements based on what you're doing
so we can we just modify it for that
person
but the idea is that we want to keep the
protein levels on the low side
and we want to keep the high nutrient
plants
on the high side so high nutrient plants
are the ones that
have all the nutrition and you know the
highest things are like sprouts
you know and micro greens and things
like that
and then fiber we need to have a lot of
fiber because if we don't have fiber we
can't grow the proper microbiome
so think about like you're not a human
being
you're a conglomerate of all of these
organisms together
so you have you know hundreds of
millions of different species just
living in you and so we look at
hunter-gatherer populations
and what their microbiome looks like
versus us
we're completely sterile compared to
them
and they don't get you define what you
mean by sterile i think most people hear
sterile and they think that's a good
thing
yeah no it's not so you want to want to
be exposed and
the bacteria you really want to be
exposed to are soil soil-based
bacteriums
like this just roll around in the dirt
how do we how do we expose ourselves
intelligence the problem is that our
dirt
is not the dirt of the past and
you know they've done these studies
where you go into a farm
that's you know monsanto farm or
whatever a gmo farm and you pick up the
dirt there's nothing in it
there's barely any bacteria there's no
worms in it there's no parasites
it's just sterile and then you know you
go into a rainforest
somewhere where you know they're not you
know affected and you
pick up a handful of dirt and like you
can't even
identify everything in there there's so
much stuff going on
so there's a lot of mechanisms in your
body that rely on certain peptides
which are short chains of amino acids
and because we've had this symbiotic
relationship
with all of these different species of
bacteria and yeast and stuff like that
there's a lot of things that we don't
have in our own genes
that we need it's made by them
and they're released and we absorb them
and then we're able to use it in our
molecular machinery
but without them we can't and without
them there's parts of our immune system
that don't work very well
and the older you get the worse your
immune system gets there's this thing
called thymus
you know where your thymus shrinks over
time and so a lot of the work for age
reversal
is built on how do we regenerate the
thymus gland so that you can have the
immunity
that you did when you were younger and a
lot of immunities not just keeping you
safe from the environment
as far as viruses and bacterias it's how
well can you repair
tissue because that's all dependent on
your immune system
so your body always reacts to the stress
around it
you put an astronaut in space and their
bones become weak
because the body's like well i don't
need strong bones so there's no gravity
right you have someone do deadlifts and
immediately their
bones density starts to go up you know
or impact training things like that
same thing with your thymus gland if
it's not exposed to any threats
and it's not doing anything it's not
because it's very expensive to graduate
t
cells and natural killer cells well why
would it do that so it needs to shrink
in size because it's not needed as much
when you say that we respond to the
stress that's around us what stress do
we want to give it
to make sure that it stays robust
right so making sure that you have
enough exposure to things
what you want is a child to be exposed
to all that stuff
so then their immune system gets used to
that and responds to all that
and has a proper uh response to things
and it stays healthy
and it won't just be your gut it'll be
everywhere like
which microbiomes in your mouth
protecting your teeth which microbiomes
in your nasal cavities protecting you
from viruses and you know uh sinus
problems from allergies and all that
kind of stuff what's in your eyes
what all different parts of your gut
what's on your skin you see people with
all kinds of skin disorders and tons of
acne and things like that
a lot of that can just be relieved by
getting the proper microbiome there
and then changing you know their diet
so bringing it all back around to
anti-aging and reversing the clock so
we've
covered a lot and everything you've told
us to do so far sounds hard
which tells me that's probably true but
uh we're obviously getting our sleep
right
we're not messing with our circadian
rhythms we're
cleaning up our diet we're eating
primarily plant-based we're
avoiding a sterile gut we're getting the
right kinds of
dirt and bacteria and virus given where
we're at in
in our own evolution as a person um
what about supplementation are there
things that we should be doing like
nad or should we be on metformin
like what about exogenous substances so
everything we've been talking about is
what i call a foundation
and that's what you can do for free and
it's going to help you
a certain amount and then you can go
into the next levels
which is how do i change
what was normally going to happen and so
what these supplements are going to do
is they're going to help the molecular
machinery work better and they're going
to mess around with how
genes are expressed so i'm sure you've
heard of mtor so mtor is one of these
genes that is how fast you're aging
super metabolic rate
so like to those bodybuilders or
athletes that want to go on a high
protein diet you know and just you know
or like
take four or five thousand calories a
day they're going to raise them tour
and they're going to get strong fast
but we want mtor to be as low as
possible so we can
live as long as we can without becoming
decrepit
do you know what the mechanism is there
why does mtor being low
impact longevity so there's a lot of
different things that mtor is
involved with but a lot of it has to do
with just
metabolic rate you don't want to have a
high metabolic rate
it's just kind of like you know you if
you want to drive across the country
and you want to deal with the least
amount of gas right well you can't go
100 miles an hour
right it's you're just the amount of
energy that you need to go one mile at
that speed
is not nearly as efficient as if you
were going 50.
so it's the same kind of principle and
that's your gauge
m2 is one of the gauges that we use and
in age reversal protocols that i've
developed here in the clinic
there are a lot of things that we do to
lower mtor
as much as we can through
pharmaceuticals through peptides through
ivs
that kind of stuff on top of your
lifestyle modifications
and as far as supplements go we can turn
on genes like sirtuin genes and we can
modulate ampk
and ppa our gamma and all these other
mechanisms that you hear about
and without the supplement program
you're just not really going to be
optimized and you know
right now i'm offering to people because
if you did full medical engineering with
me it can be
pretty pricey but what i really wanted
to make available to everyone is what
we're calling the launch program and
supplement program
so that you can get the most important
labs
done for a pretty you know low cost so
you can see like
well where am i what's what's my
inflammation look like what's what are
my fatty acids look like
you know what kind of what kind of
balance do i have here how's my thyroid
doing what's my
what's my immune system look like and
then you know have a consult
go over your medical history and then
have a supplement program made for you
so that it's you know tailored to you
but not
extremely expensive it's got the most
basic stuff that's gonna
help you stay healthy and also optimize
a lot of these systems
and i know there's no one-size-fits-all
but if you
could because i know there's a lot of
restrictions on metformin um
but if you could is that something you'd
recommend to everybody only if you have
type 2 diabetes like where does your
recommendation for that fall
i mean i pretty much if you can handle
metformin
in your gut and there's a few people
that really can't
but if you look at the studies that they
did on animals with metformin
they start them off pretty much when
they're born they don't do it later in
life and there's
and when those all the studies with
metformin is you have extended life
and you'll have and you have less cancer
and the people that don't like metformin
they're like oh you're harming the
mitochondria
you know you know through ampk and these
other things and uh
i don't buy it because how can how can
all these organisms have extended life
if their mitochondria are harmed so if
metformin was really causing a lot of
harm
it wouldn't be able to do that now the
only time
i do so i've been on metformin since
and uh you know i always like to
show people biological age versus
chronological age
um hormones look at methylation for that
what do what are you using as the clock
yeah
so uh horowitz came out with the first
clocks
i moved over to a clock called true age
and they're looking at
far more metabolites i think it's over
2000 metabolites
and when we're looking at metabolites
it's just like things that are broken
down by your body
and so that we can detect in the urine
are we conducting the blood or we can
detect in feces there's things that have
been excreted
so and a lot of these are just off the
blood and so we can tell by the ratios
of these metabolites
what your biological age is versus your
chronological age and
a lot of the patients that had come in
in their 70s
that had either equal biological age to
their chronological age
a lot of them come in with an older
biological age than their chronological
age
after a year of medical engineering a
lot of them have turned that biological
age back
as much as a decade and then we're also
looking at epigenetic changes
so epigenetic changes that they're
looking at in these clocks
are how are genes modified over time
a lot of genes they get turned off so
the older you get the less
access you have to running certain genes
they get methylated they get acetylated
you get these things called
histone modifications and it's just less
access to this gene
and we don't really know right now how
to undo
all of these epigenetic changes and
that's where that's where all the age
reversal protocols are coming in
and those are looking at how do we undo
these epigenetic modifications
now i assume a lot of what we're talking
about in the protocols is all the stuff
that we've gone through so far
um is there something else is there
pharmacological interventions
um where does exercise fit into this
like what what is if you had to
wrap everything up and to go live like
this go
take this supplement um what what does
that all look like in a nutshell
a lot of stuff right so um
just like some of the stuff here you
want to replace your hormones
you want to take certain patterns yeah
you definitely want we have great data
on that
if you don't replace especially
testosterone
it's really hard to maintain bone mass
really hard to maintain
muscular mass especially heart and most
importantly it's hard to maintain the
mass of your brain
and so now we have about 28 years
of bioidentical hormone replacement and
what we're noticing is that the people
that have been on bioidentical hormone
replacement for that long
when you when you compare them to their
peers
they are far more functional they look
better they
their cognition's better their
musculature is better their skin's
better like across all systems
and it's because these hormones are the
triggers to turning on a lot of genes
and so they're not going to modify
they're not going to epigenetically
modify their genes as much they're going
to keep on all these things these repair
mechanisms are going to keep things
working well
one of the things i'm always telling
people is that we want to
live longer in health
so that we can live long enough for the
future
so in in my field and where we when i
the places i speak and the people that
are working this
we think about 50 years in about 50
years
the technology is going to be there to
reverse your age and basically be close
to immortal
now you're talking about language but we
need to
survive so we're using peptides
we're using synalytics so synthetics are
the
supplements and ivs and all that kind of
stuff that are going to kill your
centalytic cells
and some of that you're going to be
doing water fasting and things like that
and then we also do a lot of work on
spirit
and you know spirit's kind of a weird
word to use but like
um if you have a powerful spirit
and somebody comes up to you and says
some nasty stuff
it doesn't do anything to you right you
don't ruminate about it you don't
explode on that person you just notice
that this person's just
compromised right and you see things for
what they are
and you have trust in yourself and you
have control
over your emotions right that's a
powerful spirit
like you act exactly the way you want to
act
at all times and it doesn't come from
believing in some dogma it comes from
working
deeply on yourself mindfulness
diving deep into your past and
understanding
what negative patterns that you have
that are prevalent today that
hijack you and then how are we going to
replace those negative patterns with the
positive patterns that led you to all
your successes in life
so we we work on a lot of that and in
the clinic i do a lot of ketamine
psychotherapy
and it helps you disassociate yourself
from your ego and you're able to go
you know deep into your subconscious or
some people call it the spirit world
and you're able to gather a lot of
information and
they're it's guided it's only one-on-one
unlike some of these
people that go for shamanism events and
you know they get some benefit from it
but like you're sitting in a room with
12 people
this is one-on-one it's highly guided so
that they take
a week to create their intentions and
their suggestions to themselves
uh proper set that's called the set and
then the setting is the room that
they're in
they're just here with me we usually
have binaural beats on in the background
uh to help them you know guide through
that place there i'm talking with them
and then afterwards we do like an hour
and a half of debrief
and write huge notes out and then they
go and they journal
and a lot of people will say like oh i
died
and i'm like oh you died and i'm like
okay
you know they say that while they're in
it yeah that's a really common thing is
that they died
um but then they're they're still there
right um
and then they kind of forget that
they're human and who they are and
they're able to see
things without all the filters that we
have built into us you know even highly
educated people can easily be duped
because it goes along with their
delusional thought
of the world delusional thoughts of
themselves
what they believe all that kind of stuff
like even when
a lot of people are presented with truth
they don't want to integrate it
because it would go against this whole
delusion that they have of themselves
and the world
and it's too scary but when you're
disassociated
well you're open to the truth you're
able to see that and you're able to
bring that back with you
talk to me when when you're trying to
walk somebody through that
what kind of truths are you introducing
them to and obviously i know that it's
going to be different from person to
person to person
but if there are like themes that come
up that would be
really interesting to hear about yeah
the most interesting thing that i've
noticed with ketamine psychotherapy
is that no one ever has the same
experience twice and no patient i've
ever
had go under has had really a similar
experience to anybody else
the only thing similar is that they get
disassociated and they say they died
but as far as what they experience it's
totally separate
but when you talk about the truth and
helping them integrate the truth
um i i'm i'm absolutely fixated on this
notion of seeing a truth that you were
unable to see before and learning to
integrate it
so with or without ketamine do you see
something in them
that you don't think they understand
like is it this person
it's not that i see something in them
i'll talk to them we'll have like an
hour
consult mostly about what
is troubling you the most like what what
are the things that are preventing you
from being the person that you know
that you could be right and it could be
a wide range of things you know anxiety
is really high in a lot of people
and so is depression but it's like all
right but what's the root of that
and maybe they'll be like oh i was
traumatized from here or that
but they don't really know like what is
it what's at the
foundation of that what what belief
system
did i crystallize from those experiences
that are affecting me because those
experiences don't exist they're in the
past
right but there's some pattern and some
belief structure that got crystallized
as it's affecting you in the real time
so when you get some of the information
from doing
some of these deep dives into yourself
you can say
oh i see that clearly now and
a lot of people will say that after the
experience
that they feel so much lighter
so i think that it just really helps
people it's just another tool
right i think they still need to do
other tools a lot of the other tools
that we use are like neurofeedback and
biofeedback
just to break some of these
physiological patterns that people have
so there's not just one thing for
everyone but we try to use a bunch of
these different things to help them
optimize their spirit
does that help with anti-aging just it's
lowering their stress levels
oh that stress is probably one of the
fastest aging components that we
have to deal with um somebody that is
highly stressed
what they're doing and it's not
everyone but a lot of people will have
problems with their pelvic floor
and it's kind of like you know you see a
threat as a primitive animal
and the first thing you do is you clench
your pelvic floor it's just a
reaction because you don't want to
urinate you don't want to defecate
right and then you're triggering the
vagus nerve
to shut down your immune system your gut
all the unnecessary things
and so you see people with a lot of gut
disorders and they're like oh i blow it
all the time
and i don't go to the bathroom and i'm
constipated i'm surprised stress
right and their blood pressure's up or
their pulse is up and their hands are
cold
and it's like yeah because you're in
fight or flight like all day
and that's going to aid you so fast and
that's where
biofeed catback comes in really handy
is because we hook them up to chest
straps
and electrodes and they can see whether
they're in this pattern
of you know whether in this fight or
flight or not and
a lot of it has to do with um getting
into this pattern called coherence
so when you're in coherence your
breathing rate and your heart rate are
kind of synchronous to each other
and that's when you're you shut down the
sympathetic
nervous system and you promote the
parasympathetic which is rest and
relaxation
and that's where you want to be your
average person we hook them up and
they're not
they can't get into coherence um but if
you took somebody from like a buddhist
monastery or something that's been there
for 30 years and you hook them up like
they're incoherent
so just great great tools that we have
for everything and that's why it's
engineering based because there's not a
system of the body that we're not
looking at
and that we're not trying to optimize
because it all works together
you can't just say i'm going to optimize
your heart there's no way it's
impossible
right everything's connected and so we
have to look at all the systems
and see where we're at so if somebody
wanted to learn more about engineering
their health where would they go how do
they learn more about you
um they can go to the patio institute
dot com
uh or they can call 844-734-3678
it's also 844 regenerate
nice um and uh
they can find out what program is gonna
fit them
and right now we know we're doing things
to help people with
all budgets and even at the low end
budget you're still to learn like what
lifestyle changes do i need to make
right you're going to have a one-on-one
consult you're going to get blood work
done
and then you're going to get supplement
packs made just for you
and timed for you at the proper time
during the day
and that's our low level stuff and then
you know the people have
you know more that they can put into
this well then they can go to the higher
levels and do age reversal and they can
get the ivs and peptides and hormone
replacement
and the rest of it i recommend that
everyone do this no matter how young you
are
that was amazing guys if you want to get
your engineering on and get your health
right and hopefully
live forever you now know where to go
alex
thank you so much for joining me man
that was really fantastic
and speaking of things that will extend
your life if you haven't already be sure
to subscribe and until next time my
friends
be legendary take care
look i do not care how crazy your dream
is you
can make it happen if it doesn't violate
the laws of physics
it is by definition possible and let me
tell you
i know this from experience before i
became who i am today i was a frustrated
wannabe filmmaker who had no
idea how to make his dream come true i
was lost
paralyzed hopeless frustrated felt alone
i didn't even know where to begin
it was all so overwhelming and my
confidence
was non-existent i had no idea how i was
going to convince
somebody to give me a shot then
everything changed then i started
filling my life
with people and ideas that pushed me to
improve because i really wasn't good
enough yet
i stopped feeling sorry for myself and i
started to take
full and complete responsibility for
my life i started to realize that the
structure of hollywood
wasn't holding me back my parents
weren't holding me back my lack of money
wasn't holding me back
the high cost of filmmaking wasn't
holding me back how i was raised
none of it was holding me back i wasn't
being stopped by nepotism or lack of
contacts
i was being stopped by my lack of skills
period full stop thus began my quest to
get
so good i could not be ignored i rolled
up my sleeves
and i got to work i stopped making
excuses and i stopped accepting excuses
from others
i fell in love with the very process
of getting tough of taking your mind and
making it
stronger i started making huge demands
of myself
and started actually improving i began
to make real progress towards my goals
because
i stopped whining about not being where
i wanted to be and i started taking
immediate action i did
not worry about looking cool or
impressing people i just worried about
actually getting better i just wanted to
strive for greatness the kind of
greatness people
can't question to get so good
i could not be ignored
to this day i keep my head down and i do
the work and now nearly two decades
later
i control my life i don't need anyone to
give me a break
i'm building my own studio i've stopped
coming to the world
with my handout
if i want something as hannibal said i
will either find a way or i will
make one and i know if you've watched
this far
you're going to do the exact same thing
if you want help gaining the kind of
skills and control over your life that
most people can only dream about
join me in impact theory university
that's where i teach you
exactly how to do the work what work to
do
in what order all of it sign up
right now today we offer a money back
guarantee
you have nothing to lose if you're not
happy for any reason i will give you a
refund
no questions asked so i hope to see you
inside i hope you
make a crazy investment in yourself and
that you start holding yourself
accountable and you realize
just what a beast you can become
alright my friends if you're my kind of
person i will see you on the inside
and until then my friend be legendary
take care
thank you guys so much for watching and
being a part of this community if you
haven't already
be sure to subscribe you're going to get
weekly videos on building a growth
mindset cultivating grit
and unlocking your full potential
you